Class Scoped Functions (#590)
ghc-proposals/ghc-proposals: proposals/0000-class-scoped-functions.rst

      mappend :: a -> a -> a
      mappend = (<>)

      mempty :: a
      mempty = mconcat []

      mconcat :: [a] -> a
      mconcat = foldr mappend mempty
      
      {-# MINIMAL mempty | mconcat #-}

Motivation
----------

Once class become public and renaming or even removing methods becomes practically impossible 
without breaking backward compatibility.

Let we have::

      -- Bar.hs:
      module Bar where
        
            class Bar a where
                  foo :: a -> a

      -- Main.hs:
      module Main where
            -- (B) case
            import Bar (Bar(foo)) -- explicit
            import Bar (Bar(..))  -- implicit

            -- (A) case
            instance Bar T where
                  foo = somefunc

And we decided to rename ``foo`` into ``bar``. Is it possible? ::

      class Bar a where
            bar :: a -> a

      foo :: Bar a => a -> a
      foo = bar

But what to do with all instances (A) and imports (B)? These changes fully broke backward compatibility.

Proposed Change Specification
-----------------------------

Syntax
~~~~~~

We add a keyword, which is important in class declaration only.

> It is a Class Scoped function, so it could be named as ``function`` (PHP/JS/Lua-like), ``func`` (Go-like), 
> ``fun`` (OCaml/F#/SML-like), ``fn`` (Rust-like), ``defun`` (Lisp-like), ``define`` (Scheme-like), ``def`` (Phyton/Ruby-like),
> ``lambda`` (Lisp/Python-like),  ``sub`` (Perl-like) ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It denotes a class scoped function, so it could be named ``function`` (PHP/JS/Lua-like), ``func`` (Go-like), 
``fun`` (OCaml/F#/SML-like), ``fn`` (Rust-like), ``defun`` (Lisp-like), ``define`` (Scheme-like), ``def`` (Python/Ruby-like),
``lambda`` (Lisp/Python-like),  ``sub`` (Perl-like) ::
```

    class Bar a where

        function foo
        
        foo :: a -> a
        foo = bar

        bar :: a -> a
        bar = foo

        {-# MINIMAL foo | bar #-}

    foo :: Bar a => a -> a
    foo = bar

    -- Main.hs:
    import Bar (Bar(foo)) -- explicit
    import Bar (Bar(..))  -- implicit

    -- (A) case
    instance Bar T where
        foo = somefunc

Semantics
~~~~~~~~~

> Class Scoped function (CSF for (A) case) has simple rules:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Class scoped functions (CSF for (A) case) have simple rules:
```

> * CSF could be defined in where-part of classes and instances only
> * CSF has a scope of an instance(where it is defined),  a class (where it is defined) and it's instances
> * CSF has no scope outside of class and instances 
> * CSF is always shadows outside function with same name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* CSFs can only be defined in classes and instances
* CSFs are only in scope in class and instance definitions
* CSFs always shadow outside functions with the same name
```

> Now we can rewrite ``Monoid a`` class as follows::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we can rewrite the ``Monoid`` class as follows::
```

    class Semigroup a => Monoid a where

        function mappend
        
        mappend :: a -> a -> a
        mappend = (<>)

        mempty :: a
        mempty = mconcat []

        mconcat :: [a] -> a
        mconcat = foldr mappend mempty

        {-# MINIMAL mempty | mconcat #-}

    mappend :: Monoid a => a -> a -> a
    mappend = (<>)

Unfortunately, these changes require changes for detailed import ((B) case).

> So we need to have implicit extension "``ImportFromClassFunction``" for omitting these changes in import and we 
> need to explicit switch it off by "``NoImportFromClassFunction``" language pragma. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So we need to have the implicit extension "``ImportFromClassFunction``" for omitting these changes in import and we 
need to explicit switch it off by a "``NoImportFromClassFunction``" language pragma. 
```
